Release notes for version 22.04 (#1481)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-22.04/releases/centreon-core.md

- [UX] Remove footer to save space
- [UX] Remove "Animation effects" option for users
- [Resources Status] New tab in right panel showing notification policy for a resource
- [Resources Status] New filter in resources status on type of status (Hard or Soft)
- [Resources Status] Filter popin improvement:
  - Remove search box when selection options are limited
  - **Resource** has been replaced by **Type** to be consistent with search bar
- [Resources Status] Make service graph tiles size constant in Resources Status host graph panel

#### Breaking changes

> Since the rewrite of the OpenID Connect authentication, it is necessary to reconfigure the redirect URL to Centreon in
> the identity provider.

For example replace:
```shell
{protocol}://{server}:{port}/centreon/index.php
```

By:
```shell
{protocol}://{server}:{port}/centreon/authentication/providers/configurations/openid
```

> Moreover, for Web SSO authentication, you need also to change Apache configuration.

For example replace:
```shell
{protocol}://{server}:{port}/centreon/index.php
```

By:
```shell
{protocol}://{server}:{port}/centreon/websso
```

## Centreon Collect

### 22.04.0

> #### Centreon Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Centreon Engine

##### Enhancements
```

- Flapping used to be detected on SOFT states for hosts and on HARD states for services. This seemed illogical so it will now be based on SOFT states for both. Based on [PR #522](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-engine/pull/522).
- Set default values in anticipation of removing the following parameters:
  - `translate_passive_host_checks` to `1`
  - `passive_host_checks_are_soft` to `1`
  - `max_check_result_reaper_time` to `30`
- New configuration files:
  - `tags.cfg` for host groups, host categories, service groups and service categories.
  - `severities.cfg` for host and service severities

#### Centreon Broker

- A new output type has been created, `unified_sql`, to replace both `sql` and `storage` in one unique output.
- New BBDO protocol version: 3.0.0. Some broker events are now sent using Protobuf arrays. This has benefits such as smaller bandwidth consumption and smaller database updates. The broker event types that have been converted are: host, host status, service, service status and RRD rebuild messages. The protocol version (`bbdo_version`) must be identical in all parts of the broker configuration.
- Broker feeds new tables for real time monitoring information.

> - A lot of new runtime statistics are available with the gRPC API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A lot of new runtime statistics are available with the gRPC API.

##### Breaking changes

As stated above, all broker instances (central, RRD, modules) must use the same BBDO protocol version to be able to communicate. This means that pollers using 21.10 or older releases won't be able to send data to a 22.04 central server using BBDO 3.0.0. Please read carefully our upgrade procedure.
```

> widgets, plugins).

If you have feature requests or want to report a bug, please go to our
[Github](https://github.com/centreon/centreon/issues/new/choose).

## Centreon Web

### 22.04.0

#### Enhancements

- [Administration] Display the name of the object that has been modified in the detail form of the administration logs

> - [Authentication] Added a Password Security Policy for local account

Author: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Added a Password Security Policy for local accounts
```

  - Define password complexity
  - Define password length
  - Password expiration policy
  - Possibility to exclude users from password expiration policy
  - Brute force detection and account blocking
- [Authentication] Moved Web SSO and OpenID Connect configuration to a dedicated authentication menu

> - [Authentication] Do not allow same autologin key and password

Author: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Autologin key and password can’t be the same
```

- [Configuration] Export hosts and services categories and severities in Centreon Engine configuration files
- [Configuration] Added a new unified sql Centreon Broker output parameters in the configuration menu
- [Core] Improved SQL queries by escaping '_'
- [Install] Creation of a dedicated account for the Centreon Gorgone process
- [Install] Improvement and simplification of Centreon Apache configuration
- [Install] Improved installation with a remote DBMS
- [Install] Set broker retry interval to 15s instead of 60

> - [Upgrade] Excluded dedicated account for the Centreon Gorgone / MAP / MBI processes to expiration password policy

Author: ```suggestion
- [Upgrade] Excluded the dedicated account for the Centreon Gorgone / MAP / MBI processes from the password expiration policy
```

- [Resources Status] Added new Filter in resources status on type of status (Hard or Soft)

> - [Resources Status] Changed "resource" by "type" in filter menu

Author: ```suggestion
- [Resources Status] Replaced "resource" by "type" in filter menu
```
